# Navigating Curriculum on Learn

## Overview

At this point, you've created a Learn account and set up an integrated
development environment (more on that later). Before you start, though, let's
get a little more familiar with how lessons work on Learn.  In this README, we
will briefly go over:

* How content is organized on Learn
* The standard Learn workflow

Let's start by talking about the different parts of the curriculum on Learn.

### Tracks and Lessons

Lessons similar to this one make up each individual piece of curriculum on
Learn. Organized together, they form what we refer to as a _track_. Tracks are
typically organized into topics, with each topic containing a series of specific
lessons.

Click on the track name above to pop open Track Navigation, which allows you to
view topics and move between lessons.

![Click for Navigation dropdown](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/intro-to-learn/HowToNavigateCurriculum.png)

![View Navigation dropdown](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/intro-to-learn/ExpandedNav.png)

Later lessons build off the earlier ones, so you must complete a lesson before
you advance to the next one.

Lessons you've completed will be filled in with a green circle, and your current
lesson will be orange.

### Lesson Types

There are two types of lessons on Learn: READMEs and Labs.

#### Labs

Labs are lessons with a coding challenge you must complete. A lab will require
you to write code and submit a solution.

All labs include a README that you will see on Learn. The lab README will
describe the objectives, overview, and instructions for the code you must write.
You should definitely read the lab README. If you're confused at any point,
always go back to the README.

You'll know if a lesson on Learn is a lab by the actions the right column asks
you to take. Labs will display the following on the right:

![Lab](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/intro-to-learn/LabLights.png)

To start a lab using the in-browser IDE, click the "Open IDE" button.  The IDE
will appear and the lab materials will automatically download the lab files.

![IDE](https://downloads.intercomcdn.com/i/o/41909803/629210713d1b1343c88b60d7/learnIde6.gif)

To complete a lab and move on, you must do two things:

* Write a solution that passes all the tests for that lab. Unless otherwise
specified, testing your work is done by entering the `learn` command in the
terminal. Running this command lets Learn know when you have a working solution.
* Submit your code. By entering `learn submit` into the terminal, a pull
request on GitHub will be created using the solution you have written,
indicating to Learn that you are ready to move to the next lesson.

Occasionally, you will encounter labs that do not have tests which we call _code
alongs_. These lessons do not have a challenge to solve, but are designed for a
hands on approach to learning a concept.  For these, you will not need to run
`learn` to pass tests, but _will_ need to run `learn submit` when you are
finished.

#### READMEs

READMEs are lessons that only have instructional content. They
are designed to teach you something without challenging you to practice or
implement the concept directly. The lesson you are currently reading is a
README.

READMEs provide context and exposition on a topic by breaking concepts down.
READMEs are how you learn enough to solve a lab.

As you can probably tell already, Learn is a big fan of the written word. Some
READMEs have videos, but our expectation is that you also do the reading. The
video augments the content; it does not replace it.

You're going to have to do a lot of reading on Learn. We know other platforms
make heavy use of 3-6 minute videos, and we're going to continue to experiment
with that medium. For now, the majority of the content on Learn is text. We
believe that with all the details and syntax involved in code – and since being
a professional programmer is basically reading and writing text all day – the
best way to learn to code is through reading and writing code, not watching
videos.

Some READMEs also contain brief interactive elements such as quizzes or little
in-browser coding challenges.

Once you've completed a README, you should click the "I'm Done" button on the
right. The "Next Lesson" button will light up, allowing you to proceed.

![Readme not done](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/intro-to-learn/readmeUndone.png)

![Readme done](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/intro-to-learn/readmeDone.png)

## Conclusion

For the majority of curriculum on Learn, we will introduce concepts to you first
through a README, then reinforce those concepts by having you apply what you've
learned in a lab.  

Seeing as this lesson is a README, you're now done and ready to go to the next
lesson. Click the "I'm Done" button and proceed to the next lesson.

Happy Learning!

<p data-visibility='hidden'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/navigating-curriculum-on-learn-ide'>Navigating Curriculum on Learn IDE</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>
